- [Instructor] By default, spring events are synchronous,
meaning the publisher thread blocks until all listeners
interested in a particular event
have finished processing the event.
What if we have a listener that takes too long to get
executed and publishing synchronously?
It isn't really what we're looking for.
We may need asynchronous handling of our events.
To make an event listener run in async mode,
all they have to do is use the at S
in connotation on that listener.
We also need to enable asynchronous processing
by adding at enable Async
on top of our spring configuration.
Keep in mind that using Async in event system
comes with its limitations.
Async listeners cannot publish
a subsequent event by returning value.
If you need to publish another event,
use application event publisher.
If an asynchronous event listener throws an exception,
it's not propagated to the caller.
However, by implementing
Async Uncaught Exception Handler Interface,
we can process any asynchronous exceptions.
As part of our exercise,
we need to add a new feature
on top of customer registration use-case.
For each registration,
we need to form external analytics system
so our marketing people can start to track them in a
customer funnel.
However, external call is really slow
and it doesn't make sense we blog the whole use case.
Running this event asynchronously sound like a perfect fit.
Let's go back to our project
and create a new event listener.
First under the analytics package,
we have a class analytics service that has a method called
register new customer
with a timeout of five seconds
to simulate long running service.
What we need is the listener that we'll call this method.
We need a new class
called analytics
customer registered listener.
Since this is a spring bean, we will add,
add component annotation.
We will create a new method of type word
called unregister event
with the argument customer registered event.
We need to call analytics service,
which we will first inject with constructor injection.
Now we can use it as a part of our listener.
We also need to mark our listener as add event listener
and add Asynch annotations.
To verify if our listener and analytics
service has been triggered, we can run our test.
The test is calling customer service dot register.
We are also verifying the call to register new customer.
Due to the nature of us in Kronos,
the call to this service might not have been called
immediately after the main thread of customer service
has finished.
So we added a small timeout.
Let's run our tests.
Even though our test is green,
notice that customer register has been running
more than five seconds.
We forgot to enable
asynchronous method execution capability.
To do that, we just need to add,
add enable async inner spring configuration.
After we re-run our test,
you can see registered new customer method has been called,
but we weren't waiting for it to end.